---
layout : post
title : "Trump balks at COVID-19 relief deal"
category: [news]
---
### [Nikkei hits 30-year high](1)
Japanese stocks hitting a 30-year high, as hopes that a long-awaited U.S. pandemic relief package would be expanded and a Brexit trade deal supported investor risk appetite.

The U.S. House of Representatives had voted earlier to increase stimulus payments to qualified Americans to $2,000 from $600, sending the measure on to the Senate for a vote.

Shorting the dollar has been a popular trade recently and calculations by Reuters based on data released by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Monday suggested this could endure. Short positions on the dollar swelled in the week ended Dec. 21 to $26.6 billion, the highest in three months.

### [U.S. House approves $2,000 coronavirus aid checks](2)
The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives voted 275-134 to meet President Donald Trump’s demand for $2,000 COVID-19 relief checks on Monday, sending the measure on to an uncertain future in the Republican-controlled Senate.

It is not clear how the measure to increase aid checks will fare in the Senate, where individual Republican lawmakers have complained the higher amount would add hundreds of billions of dollars to the latest relief bill.

The Senate is due to convene on Tuesday, and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said he would then seek passage of the higher stimulus checks bill in the chamber, where Republicans have the majority.

Wall Street’s main indexes hit record highs on Monday as Trump’s signing of the aid bill bolstered bets on an economic recovery and drove gains in financial and energy stocks.

As the floor debate was under way, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said: “Republicans have a choice, vote for this legislation, or vote to deny the American people the bigger paychecks that they need.”

Republican Representative Kevin Brady said the bill does nothing to help people get back to work. “I worry that as we spend another half a trillion dollars so hastily, that we are not targeting this help to the Americans who are struggling the most and need that help,” he said.


[1]: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-global-markets/asian-shares-rise-on-u-s-stimulus-fix-nikkei-hits-30-year-high-idUSKBN29301J "Nikkei hits 30-year high"

[2]: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump/u-s-house-approves-2000-coronavirus-aid-checks-sought-by-trump-idUSKBN2920I0 "U.S. House approves $2,000 coronavirus aid checks"
