---
layout : post
title : "Financial Risk Management with R"
category: [coursera]
---
### Diversification
Investors can reduce risk, and improve the level of risk relative to return, by diversifying their portfolios. Diversifying portfolios moves them closer to the efficient frontier. The key to diversification is to choose investments whose prices are not strongly correlated.

### Efficient frontier
The efficient frontier describes the relationship between the return that can be expected from a portfolio and the riskiness (volatility) of the portfolio. It can be drawn as a curve on a graph of risk against expected return of a portfolio. The efficient frontier gives the best return that can be expected for a given level of risk or the lowest level of risk needed to achieve a given expected rate of return.

### Beta
The β (beta) of a security is essentially a measure of the strength of the relationship between the price of a security and the market. It is used to calculate discount rates for CAPM.

### Diversifiable risk
Diversifiable risk is simply risk that is specific to a particular security or sector so its impact on a diversified portfolio is limited.


We refer to these common sources of risk using the term risk factors. Here are some examples of risk factors: equity indices, interest rates, foreign exchange or FX rates, commodity prices, and inflation. We will not be concerned with idiosyncratic risk, which is the risk that is unique to a stock but not to other stocks because idiosyncratic risk is diversifiable.


[1]: https://www.investopedia.com/articles/04/092904.asp "Value at Risk (VAR)"
[2]: https://moneyterms.co.uk/portfolio-theory/ "Modern/Markowitz portfolio theory"
