---
layout : post
title : "Fresh COVID-19 concerns"
category: [news]
---
### [Asian stocks slip on fresh COVID-19 concerns][1]
investors worried a highly infectious new strain of COVID-19 that shut down much of Britain could lead to a slower economic recovery.

Countries across the globe shut their borders to Britain on Monday due to fears about a new strain of coronavirus, said to be up to 70% more transmissible than the original, causing travel chaos and raising the prospect of food shortages days before Britain is set to leave the European Union.

Volatility in U.S. equities jumped in thin holiday trading. The **Cboe Volatility Index**, known as Wall Street’s “fear gauge,” notched its **largest one-day gain since late October**, even though it finished well off its session high.

### [Brexit: still problems, we'll thrive without a deal][2]
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday that there were still problems in Brexit trade talks and that Britain would thrive without a deal.

Not that we don’t want a deal but that WTO terms would be entirely satisfactory

Failure to agree a deal on goods trade would send shockwaves through financial markets, hurt European economies, snarl borders and disrupt supply chains.

### [COVID-19 stimulus helps but underwhelms][3]
The $900 billion pandemic aid package expected to win Congressional approval on Monday

The new bill, at roughly the size of that gap, contains $166 billion for checks to most Americans, $120 billion in extra payments to the unemployed, and nearly $300 billion in new “payroll protection” loans for companies that keep employees on the books, among other things.

Of 22 million jobs shed since the start of the pandemic, about 12 million have come back, leaving a shortfall of nearly 10 million, Labor Department data shows.

Targeting funds to people who have lost their jobs is an extremely effective use of government aid, economists say, because it helps the neediest and because it is likely to be spent quickly and fully, delivering a boost to the economy.




[1]: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-global-markets/asian-stocks-slip-on-fresh-covid-19-concerns-idUSKBN28W00K "Asian stocks slip on fresh COVID-19 concerns"
[2]: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-britain-eu/uk-pm-johnson-says-on-brexit-still-problems-well-thrive-without-a-deal-idUSKBN28V2DF "Brexit: still problems"
[3]: https://www.reuters.com/article/health-coronavirus-usa-economy/better-than-nothing-the-u-s-900-bln-covid-19-stimulus-helps-but-underwhelms-idUSL1N2J00M0 "COVID-19 stimulus helps but underwhelms"
